Saturday weekend, and he wants to drive
everywhere in the world, you know. I remember what
that was like. Okay, so let's, how'd you get in? May
1943, I was inducted into the Army. I had completed
four years of ROTC at A&M, and I was waiting, I was in
February 1943, I had completed four years of ROTC.
And if I'm not mistaken, I had a straight A in bull
techs. And I was also captain of the basketball
team. And I also applied to the University of Texas
Medical School. And I had gotten a letter saying
they were evaluating my application. They would
let me know. So I talked to A&M. A&M says, well, you
can stay till you hear from the medical schools.
And my class was called up in February of 43 to go to
the Army. And so
I didn't get medical school, so I was inducted into
the Army in May of 43.
Fort Sam, and they sent me to Fort Sill, Oklahoma
for basic training. So they wired A&M to give me my
commission, which I had earned. And Colonel
Welty, who was a commandant at that time, wouldn't
release my papers. Why not? Because I had not gone
in February. He was mad at me.
What did he think? I don't know what he thought,
Terry. You were slacking off or something? I don't
know if I was slacking or what. But he wouldn't
release my papers. So I had to go through basic
training, May, June, and July, and apply to OCS.
Really? That's right. Instead of getting a
commission immediately? Immediately. And so I
went ahead. That cost the government a lot. It did.
I went ahead and went through basic training as a
recruit. And of course, in the artillery school, a
sergeant who was in charge of recruit training
recognized immediately that I knew something
about field artillery. So he made me his
assistant, acting corporal or something. So I got
some good training and leadership there. And I got
consideration from the sergeant.
Guard duty and all that stuff that they normally
put you on. Anyway, I had to apply to OCS, like
anybody else. And I was accepted. And they sent me
to fuel artillery OCS there at Fort Salem, and I
graduated November 11. Yeah, in 43. 43.
Yeah, 43. Then I was immediately sent to-
Commissioned. I knew you were commissioned.
Commissioned November 11. And I was sent to the 8th
Armored Division in Fort Polk, Louisiana. And I
stayed with the division until I went overseas.
And when did you go overseas? September 1944.
And went to England and then we went into the Battle
of the Bulge of January 1945. What was England like
when you got there? Well, it was wet, cold. We were
on a place called Windmill Hill. We picked up our
equipment and we didn't, we couldn't do much
traveling. Went down to Bournemouth, England.
Went to London one day and got off the train and
there was a buzz bomb went off a couple blocks away
and blew us all down so I got back on the train and
went back to Westchester where we were, Woodmill
Hill. How'd you get along with the British people?
Good, very good. Got along well. And then we
crossed the channel, went into France, and then we
went into the Bulge with General Patton's army.
Yeah, I wanted to talk about that. Of course this is
December 1944. So when did you first see action?
January. 12, 1945. That's when you first saw
action, doing the bulge. No, it was earlier than
that. It was January the 5th. Well, early January.
Early January. Were you called, were you always
expected, once you were in England, were you
always expected to be shipped over? Oh, yes. There
was no question about it. No question about it. Did
they accelerate because of that? Accelerated,
that's right. Because of the Battle of the Bulge.
That's right. Okay. Then the Germans attack in
December of 1944. Right. And who was your
commanding officer? Who was your general? What
army were you in? General Devine. Okay. It was the
8th Army Division.
General John M. Devine. He was a West Point
classic.
I received from him the first silver star for
gallantry in action. the Battle of the Bows or the
Fjallraven. Okay, now I want you to describe this
action. I've got the little printout here on it,
but I'd like you to describe how you won Silver
Star. We were, we were attacking a little town
called Nenning, Germany. And I was with- How do you
spell that? N-E-N-N-I-N-G, Germany. And it's
right where the Moselle River and Luxembourg,
Germany and France meet. Right in there. And we
were attacking a German strong point. It was a
chateau. And in the town of Ninning, I was with C
Company of the 7th Infantry. And the battalion
commander was Colonel Poinier. And I was with him,
and he was directing the fight.
During the night on the jump off some of the
infantrymen got hit pretty bad and there weren't
any medics around. So I went back and got the medics
and brought them up there and we evacuated. You
drove back? I walked back. Walked back to the
medics. They were pretty far back and got the
ambulances and everybody to come up there. And so
then as dawn was breaking, the commander wanted
some artillery support, so I went forward beyond
the line and directed artillery fire preparation
for him to jump off. And so when he did, the
battalion commander went with him, Colonel
Pornier, and he got hit. And so he laid out, we were
at the edge of town, and he was sort of a courtyard
thing, and the battalion commander was laying out
in the opening. And two medics went to get him, and
they were killed immediately by snipers. And so we
sat there for 30, 40 minutes. How did you know he was
alive? Well, he would move a little bit. Oh, OK. But
we knew that the medics were dead. They were just
dead. You could tell because the bullet hit one of
them in the head, and the other hit him just below
the neck. And so we knew they were dead. And so I kept
looking around, and I said, where's the rest of the
medics? And they said, there's no more. So we got to
get Colonel Parneer out of there. And they said,
well, what are we going to do? I said, here's what
we're going to do. And I ran, and I got him, and I drug
him back. And while doing so, the mortar fire and
infantry fire, it was all around us. pulled him
back behind a wall and by that time we were under an
artillery barrage and the bricks and everything
began to fall and here was a colonel was laying
there face up and so I took off my helmet which you
don't never do and I put it over his face and then I
got on top of his body and then all the bricks fell on
my back and so After that slacked up, then the
medics could come. They could come where we were.
And so they came up there with the ambulance. And I
gave him a couple of morphine shots and marked his
head. Morphine. That's what we did. All F-4
observers carried about a dozen morphine
syringes with them. And you break them like these
iodine swabs, morphine swabs. And you used them in
case somebody got hurt like current partner. When
you did, you took an iodine swab and you marked a
man's head, morphine one or morphine two. Depends
on how many shots you do. And so they evacuated him.
And I left that position and I went forward again
and I directed artillery barrage for about two
hours on top of a chateau that was holding us up. And
inside the chateau were better than 500 Germans.
No kidding. Oh man, we couldn't move. And so by the
time the artillery barrage let up, and
incidentally, I directed the battalion barrage,
division artillery, corps, and we got army, third
army artillery in there. So you can imagine the
artillery fire we were getting. So you were the
spotter for all of them? I was the spotter. I was the
spotter for the whole army artillery. And as soon
as We were ready, as soon as the infantry and tanks,
the armored tanks, were ready to move off, I ceased
fire. And they moved in and captured this chateau,
which was holding up the whole line. And from then
on, they went on in. Well, Colonel Parney had lived
and came back on a cane to direct his battalion many
weeks later, and came over and thanked me. But for
that, they gave me the Silver Star. for gallantry
in action. The oddity of it, Terry, was that my
battery commander, who had to write up a citation,
put in for a Bronze Star. And when it got to the
division staff, they saw it. They upgraded it to
Silver Star. And then they made that presentation
to me just before we crossed the Rhine River.
General Devine came down, had a regular. passing
review type parade because it was the first Silver
Star given in the field artillery, division
artillery. And also, at the same time, I was hit. I
was hit in the face and I was hit in the back, but I
didn't stop. When I went back to get the medics...
What were you hit with? Martyrs. Shrapnel?
Shrapnel. When I went back to get the medics, my
face was bloody. And so the medic says,
Lieutenant, you better sign in here and and get
some medical aid. I said, I don't have time. Well,
sign here. I said, well, you sign my name, Mike P.
Kokonos. So they signed my name, Mike P. Kokonos. I
just took the medics, and blood was all running
down my face here. I got hit right here. You were
lucky. I was very lucky. At the time, I got hit. Were
you just skinned across the face? It was shrapnel.
It went in, and I think it stayed in there. Because
some years later, it opened up and dropped out. No
kidding? Yeah. And I was hitting the back. My back
had a score. Where did it drop to? Right. I don't
know. It hung in here. So you had to have it cut out?
It came out. You know, it looked like a little... It
fested all the time. I thought it was a pimple. It
came out. One day, oh, gosh, about five years
later. So the... And how about the back injury?
Yeah, it was a shrapnel. It cut me. Just cut my back.
I had a map out, and the infantry company commander
was showing me how they were going to make this
tackle in the chateau. And we were behind a ditch.
And me and my corporal, radio operator, and
sergeant were there. And the three, the captain
and his two platoon leaders, so it was six of us. The
mortars fell right in the middle of us. I got up, my
sergeant got up, my corporal got up, the other
three didn't. They had to carry them out on
litters. The company commander got killed, and
the other two were just severely wounded,
seriously wounded. So that's when I got hit, and
that's when I went back and got with the battalion
commander, and he was telling me what they were
doing. But I was very lucky. No kidding. Oh, just.
Probably lucky. Oh. I don't know how the good Lord,
I guess, stayed with me. But after that, I crossed
the Rhine River with the— So tell me, before we go
across the Rhine and move up, first I'd like to know
a little bit about a forward observer's duty,
exactly what you did. You were a lieutenant. How
many people did you have on your staff? How did it
work? Tell me how it worked. Fort observer is the
artillery observer. He directs the artillery
fire for the infantry or the tanks. And his job is to
stay with the company commander of the infantry.
Wherever he goes, that's where he goes. If the
company commander says, okay, artillery
observer, my first platoon is making an attack. He
needs artillery fire. You go where that platoon is
making the attack. Mm-hmm. And so. So you're
always in the action and you're always calling in
the gunfire. Gunfire, always calling artillery
gunfire. Couple of times I'd look up and the
infantry was behind me because they felt they
ought to move back for some reason or another. And
I'm sitting there directing artillery fire on a
tank or a bunker or machine gun and being sniped at.
And so the artillery observer, and what they'd do,
they'd send us up for four or five days and didn't
bring us back. The artillery would. And either we
rested or we flew artillery fire from the L-5 or
L-19 observation plane, which I hated. Didn't
like it at all. Yeah, I didn't like that at all. I'm
not much of flying in those days anyway. But the
artillery observer
stayed with the infantry or armored. Or the tank
commander. Now, if you're a tank commander or
observer, which I did once or twice, you rode third
in line. Or the fourth. You're the fourth in line.
The other three are armored people. And the
artillery observer is the fourth one in line in his
armored tank. But I always had a jeep. And I had a
sergeant, a corporate radio operator, and a jeep
driver. That was it. And I had an armored... So
there wasn't anybody with a machine gun or
anything? Oh, no. Oh, no. I had to depend on the
infantry to protect me. Oh, no, we didn't have any
security people at all. Besides the radio, did you
carry arms? I carried a carbine,
and then I got rid of that and got me one of these what
you call a grease gun. It was a submachine gun. Oh, I
see. I carried that. And then later on I got rid of
that and it got to be cumbersome, so I got me a Luger,
which I know I shouldn't be wearing a Luger,
because if I ever got captured they'd shoot me
immediately. But my car, my... Why is that?
Because they knew it was a German Luger and they
felt that I must have
got it from somebody to get it, see. So this was a
talk, you know. My crew followed me wherever I went
and I had an armored, I had what we call a half track,
also had all the radio communications in it.
I would go forward of my radio operator and string a
line and I would talk to him by phone and he would
relay the commands back to the artillery, fire
direction center. And they went through
battalion, and they would direct the artillery
for me. I'd give the commands. And what I learned at
A&M in artillery is what I used in combat. Oh, yeah.
I was delighted firing artillery fire, what I
learned at A&M. Because I got a refreshing of it
when I went to the field artillery school. What I
learned at A&M was a foundation for my artillery
firing. Okay, now let's go back to the Rhine again,
and oh, I want to ask you another question dealing
with this. And that is, did you ever see, meet, or
form any opinions about the great generals of the
WWII, Patton, Bradley, and Eisenhower? Yeah,
Patton, you know, I thought was great. In fact, he
drove up in the area where we were. Did you see him?
Saw him. Talked to him, told him he shouldn't be up
here. And he left. And he wanted to know where I was
from. I told him, Texas A&M. He says, great school.
Did he? Yeah. We wanted him to leave because he
would draw fire. We didn't want to be fired upon. If
the Germans found out he was in the area, man,
they'd send the Air Force over. And then Bradley,
of course. What did you think of him? I liked him. I
thought he was great. What did you like about him?
Just his bearing, just his confidence, the way he
talked. I think he's a great American. I really do.
Did you ever see that movie, Patton? Sure did. Oh,
yeah. What did you think of that? Well, at times I
thought they kind of overdid the slapping
incident. I don't think that was as bad. Of course,
I wasn't there to see it. But I'll tell you one
thing. If you went from the 3rd Army area to the,
Seventh Army area. You knew that you left the Third
Army by the discipline and by the dress and by the
way they maintained themselves. And of course,
after that, we went to the Ninth Army, General
Simpson. And General Simpson was a great general,
too. But not as great as Patton. I thought it was
just outstanding. What did you think of Bradley?
Bradley was great. Oh yeah, I liked Bradley. We
needed Bradley. He was one of those GI children. Is
that what the troops thought at the time? Or is that
just a label that some pressman gave them or
something? No, no, that was at the time. Bradley
was known as a low profile type, smart, looked
after the men. Well Patton did too. Patton looked
after his men. shoot, because he was more
flamboyant. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. My general,
Devine, was a small man, quiet. I was directing
artillery fire over the Ruhr River before we got to
the ride. And I was in a building on the third floor,
looking behind a brick wall. The Germans were 300
to 500 yards across the river, dug in. And I knocked
a gun out. And so the Germans come out from their
hold, and they unscrewed the barrel of the gun.
They unscrewed and put a new one in there and then
thumbed their nose at me. Really? Oh, yeah. And
Devine was up there. General Devine was behind me,
and he tapped me on the shoulder. He says,
coconuts? What are you going to do about that? I
said, I'm going to knock that damn thing out in a
minute. It was in Stars and Stripes. Did you? Yes,
we did. We knocked them out, but then we moved.
During the night, we moved to... They didn't shoot
at you? All the time. Oh, yeah. They were trying to
shoot. They were trying to knock off your
observation point. They knew I was somewhere in
those buildings, but they didn't know where. They
knew it. Oh, yeah, they were shooting me all the
time. And Devine kind of left, so he left. And I'll
tell you an interesting thing. I just thought
about it. On the Ruhr River... And I guess Devine
was there, and then he left. The next day I got a call
to come see General Devine and bring your crew. So I
took my crew. Well, General Devine had to go to Army
Headquarters, so he wasn't there. But his chief of
staff says, you and your crew are going to Paris for
five days. I said, what for? He says, the general
said to give you a five-day pass to Paris, as you
are. and to make a report on it when you get back. So
we went, as we were, just, you know, hadn't shaved a
couple of days, dirty, filthy, really hungry. So
we jumped in three quarters of a ton, and we took off
for Paris, and it took us about 18, 20 hours to get
there. And we got there at the hotel. They were
waiting for us. No kidding. Yes, and you were... He
set it up for us? Oh, yeah, he set it up for us. I also
thought you were great. And they gave us new
clothes. They gave us a steam room. And, of course,
we bathed and shaved. And then we went downstairs
and they had a table laid out for us. They said, this
is what we're going to do for the first night, and
then after that you're on your own. So, of course,
we played in Paris for three days, and then the
fourth day we went back. So when I got back, Had to
make a report. Said, how'd you like Paris? Oh, it's
wonderful, boy. Just crazy about Paris. Said,
well, how do you feel? I feel like staying in Paris.
Yeah. Said, do you feel the same way now that you did
before you left? I said, no, different. I don't
feel the same way. Before I left, I was ready to
fight. You know, I'd do anything. But now, since
I've had this five-day period here of rest in
Paris, I got a different feeling about combat. And
what was it then, your feeling? Then? What was that
different feeling? Feeling scared, didn't want
to go back. And so then I said, okay. So they didn't
do that anymore. Too much to lose. Yeah, that's
right. Exactly. They didn't, they cut that. See,
they were going to take different groups,
different sections, and send them to Paris. And
they cut it. I told them not to do it. I said, don't do
that. If you want to arrest a guy, pull him back for a
day or two and put him behind, right here behind the
lines. Don't take him out of this environment. If
you take him out of this environment, you lose all
the continuity of fighting and the continuity of
warfare. And you throw him in a different world,
and he comes back, and he's all screwed up. And
that's what happened to us. My sergeant and them,
they wanted it. ready to go into combat. I said,
man, we got to go. We got a job to do. And that's where
my A&M training came in. Had a job to do. Even though
I wasn't acclimated to doing that again, do it like
I did before. But I said, we have a job to do. We got to
do it. And my A&M training just says, do it, period.
And it took me, to tell you the truth, I guess it took
me, hell, I never got over it, I guess, you know. But
describe Paris during that time. When was this,
January 45? Right. Oh, it was great. About the
first February of 45. Oh, it was, everybody was
happy and having a big time. Americans, so you walk
down the street and everybody wanted to buy them a
drink. Really? Oh, yeah. The girls were all over
you. Incidentally, I was single at the time. My
wife can't fuss that. But, oh, yeah, they were
very, grateful for the Americans. Couldn't do
nothing wrong. Wanted to take you out and feed you
and wine you. Oh yeah, going to a bar and people just
all over you. But I got back into combat and crossed
the Rhine River after that and I was all right. I
crossed the Rhine River and I was the only
artillery observer, only man in the 8th Army
Division that crossed. The rest of them sitting
back supporting. You were just out there all by
yourself? All by myself. I was with the 75th
Division. I was there. And everybody else was on
the other side? The other side. Crossing Orion was
like crossing the English Channel. It was an
invasion. It was just as wide, I believe. God, they
smoked it all up. And we crossed. And I had to direct
the artillery fire for the 75th Division. We were
supporting them. And I was the only 8th Armored
Division man to cross the river. Everybody else
was back poised, ready to go. Then they crossed at
Wessel. So in other words, they put you over first.
Right, as the artillery observed. I was selected,
which I didn't want that honor, to go with the
invading elements for the 8th Armored Division.
Yeah, we got a history that tells all about that.
But I didn't want that honor. They could have given
it to somebody else. But it crossed the Rhine, and
then we got into the rural. Well, how was the
fighting at that time? It was pretty rough. The
rural pockets, see, we had rural pockets. The
Germans were trapped. And boy, they were
suicidal. They wanted to get out. So we did get the
word. The division, after the 8th Army Division
crossed, and we were fighting, they got the word to
let Darmstead, to let an opening so the Germans
could get out. Because it would have been suicide
for everybody. So they opened the pocket up on the
east and let them move back. Yeah, let them move out
of there. But it didn't demand surrender. They
wouldn't surrender. They wouldn't surrender.
They didn't surrender. They wouldn't surrender
any time, except right the last on the Elbe River,
just before we got to the Elbe, they started
surrendering. and they wanted to help us to go
fight the Russians. But the rear pocket,
we hit a bank in Darmstadt, Darmstadt, and money
all over the place, German Reich money, and direct
and artillery fire, and we just kept going. Once
you got into Germany, How did the German civilians
treat you? Did you ever even notice them? They
didn't really notice them. They didn't pay
attention to them. If they went through a town and
they had white flags flying, we just kept going.
Yeah. It was the Hitlerjugend that gave us a lot of
trouble. Oh, they did? Oh, yeah. Would you explain
that? Well, they wouldn't, they would, like we
took one town to Hilton, they wouldn't. Anyway, we
secured the town. But the Hitlerjugend were all
stuck up in the buildings, and they kept fighting.
They wouldn't give up. In fact, they hit one of our
lieutenants in the armory. He was riding on top of
his tank. They hit him with a Panzerfaust. That's a
bazooka right in the back. And they were like, we
weren't fighting. He was just riding. We thought
the town was secure. It's like terrorist type
thing. And where we went, the Hitlerjugend just
fanatically fought and fought. They wouldn't
quit. They wouldn't give up. And the war was over,
almost. And how old were these kids? 15, 16. In
fact, when we got to the Elbe River, they turned us
around and put us in the Hearts Mountain to dig out
the Hitlerjugend kids. And we would capture them,
and they were 14, 15, 16 years old, like my little
son Christopher, 16 years old. They wouldn't
quit. They just kept fighting.
Now, toward the end of the war, you were assigned to
occupation duty. Yes. Tell me about that. This is
when? They surrendered in May of 1945. Okay, they
surrendered. They sent us to Czechoslovakia. 8th
Armored Division. We went there not as occupation
but as liberate. And so we stayed in
Czechoslovakia until August or the middle of July
and they moved us. They sent the 8th Armored
Division home and I was sent to the 26th Division in
Austria and that's where we occupied the country.
And I was in charge of what they call the Cumberland
Displaced Person Camps in up Austria, near
Gmunden, near the Sea of Gmunden, or the Lake of
Gmunden. It was right outside of Lenz, Austria.
And we had three displaced camps, DP camps,
displaced person camps. And my job was to take care
of them, feed them, clothe them, delouse them in
reverse order, and put them in boxcars and send
them back to Russia. These were all Russian
displaced people. They were all Russians. All
white Russians. And my job. Were they former
civilians or military men? No, they were
civilians. These were civilians. They were lucky
then. They were in the slave labor camps. Oh, I see.
Okay, so these people were in a slave labor camp
because of Hitler. Of course, that's right. And
they were white Russians. Does that mean
anything? No. It means that the communist
Russians wanted them back and just continue what
they've been doing, slave laborers or what. And my
job was to get them on boxcars and send them back,
which was terrible. they knew it they knew they
knew they were going to go to Siberia or kill get
killed they knew it but she has my A&M training
again it's my job and as much as I I did the best I
could to make it comfortable for them fed them took
care of them I would imagine they were in really
poorly poor physical condition malnutrition by
the time you got a hold of them weren't they they
were terrible really skinny skinny and
undernourished, but we fattened them up pretty
good. We fed them good, gave them good medical
treatment. And how many were in each of these three
camps? There's a hundred thousand of them. A
hundred thousand and you were in charge of those? I
was in charge of them. Of all hundred thousand? Of
all hundred thousand. And what was your rank by
then? I was the first lieutenant. In charge of a
hundred thousand displaced people. That was a
heck of a lot of responsibility. It was. It was. Why
didn't they? I would imagine that they would have
taken somebody of higher rank. Oh, I would think so
too. In fact, they had a lieutenant colonel who was
in charge of it before I got there. Oh,
incidentally, I got a battlefield promotion. I
forgot to tell you that. In the Battle of the Bulge.
I got promoted from second lieutenant on the field
of battle to first lieutenant. See, there was no
rank for my job as a first lieutenant. And so the
general came up, Devine came up with, and they
promoted me to first lieutenant. Is this after you
got the Silver Star? It was after the Silver Star.
It was cited just like a citation. They had to write
up a citation like they would the Silver Star, why
they promoted me to first lieutenant. I know we're
off the subject for a minute, but it was because I
was up for three or four days without food and water
and direct an artillery fire line drive to the
rural river or to the Rhine after the Battle of the
Bulge. Without food and without water? Yeah,
well, we had canteen without rest, without sleep.
For three straight days? Three straight days. Why
didn't they give you another medal? No. That's
usually what the military does, isn't it? Instead
of a promotion? Well, let me tell you, Terry. I
wasn't going to bring that up, but we were in a
battle after the bulge, and
it was about two weeks later we were in a battle.
Which one, the Ardennes? This was later than the
Ardennes. It was on the way to the Rhine, near
Muechen-Gladbach.
I had a very dear friend who was the armored
artillery observer. He's the guy who rode in the
fourth tank. And so my infantry company was held in
reserve that was in this fight. And so they were
ready to go any time. So rather than stay with them,
I went on up to the front to see how Bill Hamner was
doing. He's Lieutenant Hamner. And he was in the
fourth and they were fighting a battle with the 81
millimeter mortars. And when I got up at this
farmhouse where the infantry commander was, the
battalion commander, I said, y'all seen
Lieutenant Havner? He said, oh yeah, haven't you
heard? I said, no. He said, look across the road.
And that was about like looking at that house over
there, looking across the street and looking at
that house. He said, and his tank was smoldering.
See, that's Lieutenant Hamner. I said, well,
where in the hell's Bill and his crew? He says, we
don't know. I said, where are the medics? He says,
they can't get over there. That street right there
is just full of fire. I said, oh, come on now.
Somebody's got to go get them. Nothing we can do
about it. Every time we get out there, they riddle
the street with mortar fire or 81s or machine gun
fire. He says, you can't get across there. I said,
the hell you can't get across there. I'll show you
how to get across there. And I went across that
field of fire and found Hamner in the ditch.
Weren't they shooting at you? Yeah. They were
shooting all around me. And found Hamner. What
kind of ammunition? Machine guns? I don't know. It
was mortars and everything. The mortars were just
popping. But I ran across that ditch, and I found
Bill Hamner in the ditch. He had been thrown from
the tank? He had crawled out of the damn tank, and I
said, BAM! And he had taken his helmet and put it
over his face. He was conscious. And I flicked his
hand in the back. I said, Bill! He said, oh, you
goddamn Greek, where in the hell you been? You
know? Yeah! He said, where in the hell you been? I
said, what's the matter, Bill? He said, you're
about to make me cry. He said, he said, goddamn,
I've been waiting for you. He says, them son of a
bitches are not doing nothing for me. I said, okay,
I'll take care of you. He says, oh, I don't think I'm
going to make it. I said, oh, yeah, you will, Bill.
We were good friends. We were in training in Fort
Polk. I said, where's Sudie and Corporal
Hannigan? He says, I don't know. I said, okay. So I
put this helmet back on him, and I took off my belt,
and his leg was just shot up. And I took my belt off,
and I put a tourniquet because he was bleeding. And
I took off my first aid pack, and we had penicillin.
So penicillin did real good. And I said, just sit
still, Bill. So I crawled around the tank, and I
found Sergeant Sudie. And I took his leg. His left
leg was shot. And I took his belt off and put a
tourniquet on there. And then the other carpal was
shot in the chest here. and a couple other places
armed, and he was pretty well shot up. And I took my
morphine syrettes out, and I administered
morphine to each one of them, and then marked their
heads. And then I said, look. And I pulled them, and
pulled them behind the tank to where the Germans
couldn't hit them. I said, just sit right here. He
said, I'll be back. And so Bill was the most
crucial, seriously hit one. I didn't know what I
was going to do with him. And how the hell I was going
to get him out of there, because I couldn't carry
him across that road. Because hell, we would all be
killed. So I stood over there, and my battery
commander, Lieutenant Kuntz from Purdue,
he came up to the farmhouse. And I could see him. I
said, Kuntz. Where you at? I said, I'm over here in
this ditch. I says, go get the Jeep and back it down
the road and back it as fast as you can. And I'm going
to pick Bill up, and I'll get him on the Jeep. And
then you take off. OK. So he got my Jeep. How could he
go down that road with all that fire? Well, see,
where the tank was. Was below? Was down kind of a
little dip, and there's a little hill. Oh, I see.
See, a little hill. And once you got behind that
hill, then the Germans could hit you. But when you
got behind on the other side, they couldn't see
you. I see. But the tank was sitting right at this
little convex thing. And so he goes, and he gets the
jeep, and he backs it. We were hand signaling each
other. And I said, come on. And so he backed the jeep
up, my jeep. And when he did, I picked Bill Hamner
up, who was six foot and weighed about 165 pounds. I
picked him up and threw him back of the Jeep. And
when he did, he grabbed the tire. And I said, hold on
to the tire, Bill. And I said, Koontz, take off. And
Koontz took off. And the German mortar was just
right behind him. Oh, and I'm sitting there in the
ditch watching all this, you know. So he'd take
off, and so the
other two listening men were sitting there. I
said, how in the hell am I going to get them out of
here? They were hit pretty bad. So it was getting
dark. So I said, okay, we'll wait until dark. We'll
get the medics to bring the litter over. and we'll
put you on it and shun off." That's what we did. It
didn't take long, about 20-30 minutes it got dark.
I was afraid Bill would bleed to death, that's why
we had to get him out. So we got the two men over there
and the medics took them back. I stayed and
directed artillery fire on the Germans.
Coontz takes Hamner back, and Hamner passes out,
and they get him in the evacuation line, and they
get him all back to England. They gave Coontz the
Silver Star. Really? Yeah. And the battalion
commander came to me. See, it didn't bother me
until the battalion commander came up to me and
says, well, we would have given you the Silver Star
because we understand what you did and
everything, but you already had one. I said, oh. I
said, I wish you hadn't have told me that, Colonel
Dawson. His name was Dawson, Colonel Dawson. I
said, well, you had one. We'll just pass it around
to somebody else. I said, well, I said, well, the
Army, I said, the Army's not that hard up for Silver
Stars. But anyway, you know, you're talking about
medals, not getting the medal. They gave Kuntz the
medal. And it's written up there. Did he live? Oh,
yeah. Hamler lived. And he came back, and half his
leg shot off. And he came to Beaumont, Texas. Came
to see me about 1953. Catherine and I just got
married. And he stayed with me for a while here. And
he went to Detroit. I mean, to California. He's
living in California now. We haven't
corresponded in a long time. But he lived, and he
came, and he says, what's the name of your paper
here? I said, Beaumont Enterprise. So he went down
to the Bowman Enterprise and told them the story.
And they had a big write-up in the paper. Oh, yeah.
But Hammer was quite a guy.
I've forgotten all about it. That's a fantastic
story. Yeah. When you said about metal, that
reminded me of this. It's in our 8th Armored thing.
Well, and was it right after this experience that
they gave you the battlefield promotion? Did this
have anything to do with that? No, no. This was
after my battlefield promotion. That's what
prompted me to give you the story, because you said
I should have got a medal for the battle. Right.
Yeah, I should have got a medal for that, I guess.
But no, I got the battlefield promotion right
after riding the bulls with... Colonel Poirnier
right after that. And that one, now explain that.
That was for being three days. Yeah, without
resting and directing the infantry column. How
could you stay awake? I don't know. I'd nod, you
know, during the day or something. But I was busy,
you know? Yeah, right, continually. Yeah, I
didn't realize it. I was busy all the time. But
Hammer lived. Sergeant Sooty died. And the other
corporal lived. Soon he died, though, several
years later. He never got over his complications,
began to sit in. He got torn up on the inside. And he
never could really take care of it. About like
Brady's head, you know. He had bullet ricochets.
But Bill lives in California now, living in good
shape. Then
we went on to the Rhine River and we crossed the
Rhine, went into the Ruhr Pocket, then we went into
the occupation.